‘A new index to monitor temporal and long-term variations of the equatorial electrojet by MAGDAS/CPMN real-time data: EE-Index "spe of ey Gatun, Sana Yan 78-885, “apron hat PacrySces Ka Uy 0 Haka, apa "Baparman of Ps ee Un "of Po mts Pars € mtr Pare Ne R48, es sn a Sp Reh NPE 1250 18S ne de Congr Ba "Papo ss a ar Uy "tater de pg dma Une of aca Techs PMB 34 Ae. Om Sa ie ofr i nana Se ee Mina See Fe rus Quan Cy Pipes "spun cs, Caner Sa Car Coa Cy, Pape eco get 7,20: Re Fete 2,208 espe Mach 28,26 Oi ube Apo 208) ‘Anew index, EE-indes (EDs, EU, and EL), is proposed to monitor temporal and long-term vations of the equatorial elecojet by using the MAGDASICPMIN ratte data The mean valu ofthe component magnetic ‘tons observed atthe nightside (LT 18-06) MAGDASICPMN stations along the magnetic equatorial ‘etion i found wo show vasiations similar to those of Dv; we defined thi quanty as EDsr- The EDs can be used asa proxy of Dst forthe weal-ime and long-term geospace monitoring. By subuacting EDs! rom the H component data ofeach equatorial ation its possible wo extract the Equatorial Eletojet and Counter letrojetcomponcnts, which are defined ss EU and EZ respectively ‘Key words: EE-inde, atrial elect, counter eget, MAGDAS/CPMN, rel-tine monitoring, Ds index, space weather. 1. Introduction ‘The equatorial eletojet” (EEN) is observed nea the dkayside magnetic dip equator as an enhanced magnetic ‘ation superposed the lowland Sq te. Fares, 1981). The EE held s caused by the ionospheric cur rent owing along the autow chanpel (~==¥ in aid ‘al ang) ofthe enhanced ionosphere condvetity (Com {ng conductivity), which 6 formed along the dayside dip equator Many investigations hae heen made on this pe ‘nomenon fom the early age of geomagnetic. Chap ‘man, 1951: Onwumechili, 1997), because i isthe most ‘ypica and damiaant phenomenon showing on ovary ‘hagnetoprams obained at stations inthe vicinity of the ‘magnetic dip equator Despite the wealth of information ‘bind rom tes investigations. many open questions ‘sardng EET sil remain ssh as (1 the occurence mecha ‘sm of day-to-day an long-temn Variations of EED ampli tude, 2) penetation nechaniss of DP2-ULF ange distr uances fom the Solar wi region tothe magnetic equator sais elation tothe BEI disturbances and) mechanisns ionosphere thermosphere coupling and it influence on EE vanations(. Rastogl, 1992; Kobe er a, 1998 Yu ‘moto andthe MAGDAS Group, 2006) In recent yes, the importance ofthe study of equatorial phenomenais increas: ing rom the aspect of he space weathe (Quas-pesodie magnetic pemurbations of EEJ with ape riod of about halo fe-hours are commonly recognized aS DP 2 (Nishida, 1968). DP 2 i basically understood as 2 magnetic peruration hat is closely covelated with the ‘aviation ofthe interplanetary magnetic field IMP, espe lly iis not-southcomponea. One af the unigue features ofthe equatoal phenomena i the enbancemeat ‘of magnetic perturbations caused by the Cowling conduc tivity. This effect appears on various period tangs, i lading not only that of DP 2 (Kikueht era, 1996) bat also hat of ULF (Shinohara era, 1997). The monitor fing of EES i important forthe ny ofthe solar wind ‘magnetosphere ionosphere-themmosphere coupling stem (Gig, Yuna an the MAGDAS Group, 2006) “The equatorial “couner-lecojt” (CED) is aso a well: ‘known phenomenon, which i observed asa depression in the northward magnetic component wile a segular EE shows an increase (Gouin, 1962). The occurence mech: fam ofthe CEJ has not yet been clase suficienly ‘hough its morphological aspects have been accumulated by many researchers (eg, Mayaud, 1977 and references ‘herein Rastogi (1974) reported thatthe occurence of CES {sata maximum when the lunar tine is 23 and 143 8.2 sd 14.2) andthe loca time is around 7h (between 1S and 17), These lunar tines correspond to those of maximum negative effect duc tothe lana ial wave, and these CE ‘maxima ae suggested to be duct the superposition ofthe Tar seri-umal wave ove the solar daily wave of 1. Re- ty. Kikhi era (2003) proposed that CEJ most key ‘occur daring the substorm recovery phase and that hey ae caused by the api change of the iosperic elect eld severed and transmitted from the IME tough he mech ni called the oversielding effect. ‘The magnetic equatorial egton is considered as het sminator of the energy Now asocated withthe sun-eath Coupling system (8. Koes eral 1998). Thus ts vr {alo monitor equatorial geomagnetic phenome not oly ‘o clay their Tundameatal eecurzence mechaisms but Also for space weather studies. In particular, investigation fof temporal and long-term variations of equatorial ma nei dstubances associated with equatorial electojet and counter eleeuojet requires the constuction of a real-time ‘monitoring system, To ur knowledge, there i no mon toring stem as extensive asthe MAGDASICPMN, which has sufcent numberof magneti stations lead along the dip equator I this paper, we propose a new alge ridin to achieve the above goals and intsuce anew inde, ‘he BE Index (EDst. EU and EL), 10 quantify the sale af ‘magnetic dstutbances in he equal fgion using MAG: DDASICPMN real-ime data 2. Methodology ‘The MAGaetic Data Acquistion System ofthe Cucum pn Pace Magnetometer Network (MAGDASICPMN) valved fom the preseat CPMN for realtime moaitor ing of the clecwomagnetic and plasma eavitonmeat in sbospace (Yunoto and the MAGDAS Group, 2006), MAG- DASICPMN consists of two unigue chains of magnetic st ‘aw Boe 2006) “LOZ! EQUATORIAL BLECTROIET (>) NDEX BY MAGDASICNIN ions: one is installed densely along the 210° magnetic ‘meridian, andthe ott is installed at whole local te Sectors along the magnetic equator. In this study, MAG: ASICPMN Imi resolution data fom fou equatorial sta tions were analyzed to construct «basi algorithm for el time monitoring of loag-etn Vatations ofthe EES and the ce. Figure (4) shows a superposed plo ofthe relative mag cic variation ofthe H component data ER) (ein: tion given just below) obtained for I moath (Dee. 1-31 2006), atthe MAGDAS equatorial stations: Addis Ababa (AAR! Dip Lat = 057 GMLON = 11047), Davao (DAV: 0.657 19654, Ancon (ANC! 0270 35433") and Eusebio (EUS: ~7.08; 34.21), The *S" and “mn” in “ERs(m)" tle 10 a sation anda pi of time ia UT, spectively. In oxdet to obtain E Reon), the median value ofthe H component daa, whichis determined forthe po fio oa the start tne ofthe observation to the ed ie ‘of E Ryn), was subrcted from the orginal magotc data for each station. Iwas ound ot shown) thatthe median ‘al, which was calculated from ll he dats in the above ‘ued interval, could estimate the non-dsturbed nightie Ambient level. ‘The determination by shorterperod data ‘might cause some jumps in the base level among dfereat peviods(itmighr occur in particular ding disturbed ines fvhen lage magnetic storms occured fequeniy). Thus the ‘median value was clelated forthe period fom the srt tine of the observation othe end of the s(n). lhe fu ‘ure the subtracting ost value willbe coneted by taking ito account the secular variation of the base level though the vale is currently determined as constant Figure (plots he superposed H component peru tion eld data that was observed during the night tine (LT = 18-06) at each sation: ERs() irouva. The solid thik eure (orange) in Fig. 1h) isthe Dir value foe te same plot intra. This Dse was provided ia veal on the website ofthe World Data Center fr Geomagnetisn, Kyoto tps de234 hug yoto-uac pds seamen this igure, Dst was graphically sified downward so 3810 ne meh pl ane uc conf he H came ERs rn) by MAGDASICPAN qual st 1 MAGOASICPAS syste sates Se se mao Drs “LOL EQUATORIAL ELECTROJET >) INDEX BY MAGDASICPMN vod overlap with MAGDASICPMN dat. Ii noticed hat the nigitime variation ofeach station was amos aligned ‘with each ther and formed a common base magnetic vara ion, On the other hand, by comparing Fig. la) and 1). «an be confirmed tat the daytime BEY component of exch Station bulged out independently frm the base magnetic ‘aration. Wit this presentation, ii evident hat the base magnetic variation ERs(m) ix-ir varies closely with ‘he uaional Dst (Sugiura, 1963). This sinianty wll be fuer examined ltr in this ection, ‘ere we define “E Dt (Equatorial Disturbance in storm, ine” follows tis, the eltive nightie (LT = 18 (6) variation ofthe 4 component dat is determined for each Station: ER) erties calulte by the method that was defined above. For the second tp, he mean val ofthe magnetic variations among stations, when they ae located in the nightie sector (LT = 18-06), ate calculated teach mine YER hereiwe EDstq0m) = o Non) ke where the sum operation is cased out for the stations ‘which are loeated inthe nighttime sector (LT = 18-06) 5 renew. NO) ley tpesents the number of st ‘ios which are Loeated in he nightie sector (LT = 18 (6) at spected time poat of In case none of the st ‘ions as lead inthe nihtine seta, E Dt (takes 2 blank value (oe the pid ofthe plot, atleast one st tion was located in nightie sector thoughout the inter ‘a. 18-061 is opted as the siti in the preset al soit, Ie noted thatthe seasonal variation ofthe night ime dustion takes minimum value at the equatorial re ion compared with eter latitudes. Tis means that dir fal arian ofthe EED wis aloe confine within he (6 18.ET independently of any seasons, thatthe effec of the Aaytne ionosphere curent eno significant fr the period ff 18-O6LT and hat the aigatime magnetic variation ean te willed as the base evel forthe EEJ spd CE. This st ation hasbeen conimed by dhe DAV data observed fom ‘he peso of July 2008 to March 2005 (ot shown hee) “EDsty" is cne-out average of EDs! y. In Fig (0, EDsty is plowed the geen curve. The blue and orange curves in Fig.) ate - unning averages of EDsty (a beled EDsty) andthe eeastne Dat, respectively. Dir ‘sshited +42 of to adjust the base lve. Ie is coated that the EDst and Dot exhibited the sla tmporal vat ation, Is noticed that Esty is ess deviated from Ds than £ Dsty.Conelationcoeficints tetween E Dar and st, and that between EDst and Dst, which were eae lated forthe I-meonth period of December 2006, wer 0.93, ad 0.88, respectively. We have aso found tha the come lation coctiintbetveen the lw-passfilteredE Data and the low-pase-ieed Dat with the cuff period of 2 days ‘vas 198i lager than the above-mentioned 0.93, Ta over to examine how the numberof used nightie stations alets he quality of E Day here we yall ava he combigations of the nighttime stations to calculate EEDst,,cacuate the conelation between the thus obtained EDstyy and Dit, and caleulate the standard deviation of (EDity ~ Dt. When EDsty i clelated from one hightime sation, the cortelation coelient and the sa hays deviation ate in the eange of 083-092 and 7.12 122 aT, and their mean values ave O88 and 106 aT spectively. For the case of 10 nightie stations, the cel flint andthe standard deviation ate in he range of 0.91 (099 and 3.16-11.1 oT, and their ean values ae 095 and 6:71 uf espocively. Forde ase of thee aight sta ios (i the preset analysis, the AAB, ANC. and EUS roup was the available cerbinatin) the coetcient and the sandard deviation are 098 and 660 wT, respectively ‘This examination shows thatthe comelation coeficiet be tween EDs! and Dst tends to increase and the standard deviation of (EDsty—Ds ends to decease, sth nan be of nightine stations increases igure Id) shows the relative magnetic penubation of cach sation, which was calculated by subtracting EDst, from the M compoaen data. In this caleultion, Esta, wae converted to Tmin resolution dats by interpolating the original EDsra tough application ofthe FIR (anite lurtion impulse tespoase) low-pass interpolating method nis considered hat the postive and negative deviations ep reset the EET and CEJ components, espectivly. We de fine those two component as Us) and EL sm) respec tively. For example when the EU and £2 components sue derived forthe DAV sation, those values ae expressed 35 EUiga(m) and ELayl) espectivly. Inspection of these data reveal thatthe EES intensity vate fom day 0 day, moreover, the peaks and dis of each station ae aot inephase with ote stations, For example, te intensity of FEEJ atthe DAY station (be ite) and atthe ANC station (ae line attained oeal marina on Dec. 6 and 8, respec tively The mechanism ofthe 2 separation ion ofthe open questions concening BE In some eases st wil be necessary 1 comec the secular variation of ase level determine £ Dar for properly exacting the EU and EL componen Tn oxder to examine whether the above-stted procedure propery exacts the EEJ(CEY componcat fom the aig: al magnetic eturbaton and to examine if he obtained FEUJEL indies can be wtlize forthe monitoring of the Tonge variation of EEI/CEJ, we have analyzed the spec tal charactevistis of the longterm vation of EU/EL. “Theda chserved atthe DAV sation ding the pti fon July 1, 2005 to March 4 2006 were analy. In this peo, because MAGDAS/CPMN equatorial network had a been, tablished and ata rom oer stations were not avaiable, sr instead of Ds, was subtracted tom the DAV dt. Figue 2a) and 20) shows the Dst and DAV Hf compe teat data fr the above interval, respectively, From this lott canbe seen thatthe EEI component it oceasionaly “rowed out by geomagnetic storms, and by looking atthe aw data iis har 1 sce the day variation of the EE suring certain periods. However as shown in Fig 2) this ‘sity problem canbe conected if Das subacte rom the 4 component data This is pled as (DAV #)~(Dat) Despite the disturbance of a geomagnetic sem, the da: to-day variations and oscillaions of EE) intensity can be casi seen in Fi. 0), “LOZ! EQUATORIAL BLECTROIET (>) NDEX BY MAGDASICNIN et = i aad aya pas i= luli 10 EET Analysis: Ju.12005-Mar, 2006 (OAVH} (050 8 145 €6 Ba 2 o 25 10 15 20 5 90 35 40 4S BD vied [day ienav 11D Seng yrs fm Ja 308 te Mach Figue 3 shows the power spectrum ofthe subacted H component data at DAV: (DAV H7)~(D) ding the pesod fon Sly 1, 2005 10 Match 4, 2006, Its ecopnize hat, thote ate at least dhe dominant peaks at 7-5, 14.5, and 35,3 day (hese dominant peaks were visually ntl in ‘he gure) Table 1 shows the staf dominant pid peaks fof various parameters Inthe bles, (DAV H) refers 10 the eiginal (without Ds subuctien) H component data at DAV, IMF (By. By, By and By). Voy. Toy and Now fe the ierplancary magnetic Held, solar wind veloc, temperature, and numer densi. which were observed by the ACE spacccraft. Py and e are the dynamic pessure and the epsilon parameter, respectively (Perreault and Akasfu, 1978) calculated by using the ACE solar wind data For represents the Mus of the sola radio emision at 10.7 em ‘wavelength, The data of Fion was provided at the website ofthe Herbees Insite of Astophyses pea bfchiaihanre-cae-gecafcaruswwarchive ta. Tis ‘otevorty thi the above-stated dominant pti peaks of 175 and 14.5 days, which appeared in the spectrum of (DAV ‘arn pret a eps am 0 Mach est eos | Hy-(Dsr, id not have their rots in the geomagnetic tivity indies of Dsr and Xp nor any parameters such IME Vi, Tow. Naw, Po and Fr. altugh the peak at 35,3 days was also sented in Nsw. Po, and Fin 7- On the ‘er hand, the ovgial 7 component data contained the ‘same spectrum component as geomagnetic acvity indices sua soar wind parameters, excep 38.3 da. 3. Discussion ‘We have costucteda has lgointo motrin al time the long-term variations ofthe (EE) andthe (CE) by aalyzing the MAGDAS/CPMN data. We also proposed row EE sndies, which consist of EDst, EU. and EL. for the monitoring ofthe equttoria geomagnetic phenomena ‘The realtime monitoring system ofthe MAGDASICPMN, equatorial network stations, which are spaced longitu ‘lly long the dip-equatr will provide a fundameatl ret ‘ence of various geomagnetic phenomena observed ia the ‘magnetic equatorial region, ‘As shown in Fig. (0, the mean aightine variation at ach moment aamed as EDs, which Were observedat the MAGDAS/CPMN equatorial network stations, was highly ‘onelated wth the tational Ds (Sugiura, 1963) That in spite ofthe snllness ofthe total number ofthe night time stations (1-3 staions depending on UT) forthe ex “LOL EQUATORIAL ELECTROJET >) INDEX BY MAGDASICPMN mination ptiod, Est was derived in sufcent quality 4 sho sn the previous Seton. The corelaion between DDst and EDst tends to ictease, andthe standard devi tion of (Est st ends wo decrease wit increasing ‘umber of nightie stations. When the numberof night ie stains is ore than onthe oeficient is lager than 095, al the standard deviation i smaller than ~7 oT. ‘This vale conesponds 0 ~S% ofthe normal EED ampli tude (@., Doumouya eal. 2003). This result suggests that Ds tas sutitnt quality if more than oe nightie tion available fr EDst calculation, When the EE-indes published, the numberof nightie stations used to calew late £Dst will also be published as index fo the val of EDs. Wis aotedthat more stations onthe magnetic equator promise a beter accuracy: the MAGDAS/CPMN equator ‘etwork will extend the number of stations in he future. ‘Using the obtained & Ds, the EE) and CE! componeat swore derived and name ab EUs and BL fr each equa ‘onal stations (5}by using only the MAGDASICPMN, data without efening to povisionalealsime Dst. EDst has consistency with Det. and concurrently derived EU saad EL ate possibly utilized as real-time monitoring of ‘he temporal nd long-term aration ofthe FED and CE pienoment, These ae useful not only fr elarifying thei fundamental mechanisn but also for studying the space ‘weather The staisia consistency between Dst and EDs sould be verted successively as loag-temn data will be ‘ccumulated. The reatine EE index willbe published on the website a “hapiwwrw.ere Kyushu. jp, a the rus for publicusage ofthe EE-index will also be iafomed there. ‘Although EDs is similar wo Ds (as stated above), they axe not idetical, and is ipertat wo construct the men ‘oving system, which is independent of rovisionalcal ime Ds sated below. The behavioe ofthe magnetic ‘srlatons which ae observed atthe equatorial tations ae Atereat from those ofthe Lo-laiude Dsr stations (Tor example, the effect of Sq ate dillerent. Some pation of the dissimilarity benween EDsr and Dst could be eaused by the diferent behavior of the magnetic variations (and ‘ters could be caused bythe day-night asymmetry, EDs {s devived only trom aightime data). The Sq component ‘which was deduced from the quct-day magnetic vaiton foreach Dst station, was subtracted in deriving Dst; how eer the subaction might not be perfect, especially ia the ‘roisonacal‘tine das, That ii is possible that hee exists Some remnant ofthe Sy component oa Dst and the Fema could aflet the EE-andex i we use Dst in dei ing the EE- inde, nation tthe above, the independent stem has advantage to react Mlesbly othe change in the observational station ofeach sation (ole evel, secular ‘ation ofthe bas evel et) Tord to derive the EES and CEI component, the night time level inthe neighboring days ha been commonly re fered to asthe base level. For example, Fambtakoye and ‘Mayaud (1976) used linaly interpolated values connect {ng neighboring days’ midaight values asthe basis sn de sivng the EET and CES compooents. Rigot eta. (1999) eine the reference (base level as flows: “At mini, the uaces ate close 10 suaht lin, showing no sign cant magnetic vasa, Hence, the midnight value othe mean between the preceding and subsoquetmidaght va tes canbe taken a the zero reference level for the dra ‘ariaton”. The presented method isan extension of such aditional lgosithns ands basicaly consist with them. “The improvement of our slgrihn istha i tkes ino ac count the temporal variaon of the nightie level affected by extemal magnetic variations. The traditional bas level in he ler dd not include te magnetic variation th secured between both ends ofthe itrpolted period |S noted that our new agorith isnot just a matomati fal extension ofthe traditional procedure ut that i has seophysical meaning in tht it subwacts Dst. The spec trum analysis Table 1) sevaled tht subuaction of Ds {or EDs fom the H component data removed extemal ‘magnetic disturbances. This procedure hasan advantage ‘enabling the extraction ofthe EEI and CEJ components ven under dstusbed geomagnetic conditions and wo ealz ing continuous monitoring ofthe EET and CED ‘As shown in Table 1, subticted H component data st a equatorial sation: (DAV )~(Ds, showed 75145 tnd 35.3-dsy periodicities and didnt conan ny spectrum, components fr periods longer than the 2 das included in the geomagnetic indices and solar wind parameters except forthe 35.3 days iis atopic offre research to exami if the periods 75 and 7.7 days havea common source o ot rs reasorable that the Same result could be obtained if we adopted EDst insta of Dst on deriving the spec tuum pat of (DAV H}-(Dsn), because, ab examined in the pevious section, mapneti variation with periods longer than? days was highly comelted between Est and Dst “This suggests that hy subtracting EDsr from the Hf compo. eat data at each equator station, local eects ean be de ‘ced, which ar interpreted in this paper as the long ‘asiaton of EEJ. The specifics ofthe local eects have not boon fll understood. This is topic fr fru research ‘One possibe cause of thas local effects the interaction betwoen the upper atmosphere andthe ionosphere though the planetary othe Rossby nonnal mode wave (oebes ct 4a, 1998). The power spectrum shown in Fig. 3 exis ited simiae pater compared wi the ress presented by Fothes and Leveroi (1992). They found spectrum peaks at 1 and 34 days. In the presen analysis the spectum peak ofthe 383-4 period appearing ia the yviation of (DAV H)=(Dsn comesponde to those of Ns, Po however this result might not dzetypoit 10 Nyy OF Fy 8 a cause of the ground 35 3-day vations, As suggested by Forbes and [Leveron (1992), this could be the effet ofthe solar fai ation (Fy) 00 the sonospere and, consequently. oa EE “The spectral analysis for Fy) ation represented the ex Istnce of 22.- and 35.3 peas. Ht supports the above suggestion. We not thatthe ZE-index may inelade thee feet of long-erm oscilations in the latitudinal location of FEE (eg. Osbome, 1962). The frequencies of such asi lations woul sow themselves in the FFT results, but i ‘topic of future esearch to identify the cause ofeach FFT component elated! to EE] Yound in this pape. The real time monitoring of EEJ by MAGDASICPMN wil enable aud peomote the investigation of mechanisms that resulta the long-term vations within the coupled system ofthe mosphereionosphere Ta this paper, we have proposed new geomagnetic in dex, the £Eindes, which denver the data of the MAGDASICPMN equatorial aetwork This network a lows for the rst time real-time monitoring of geomagnetic phenomena inthe mapncti-equatorialzegon. This nde ‘ill provide information tht should clarity the sitstion of Solargeospace coupling and atmosphete-ionosphere cou pling along the magnetic equatorial region. Long-term and Continuous stay ofthe EE index sould grestly expand the Understanding ofthe fundamental mechansns pertaining 10 ‘rious equatorial eomagnetic phenomena ite erty lst of Aso for pong Fy sear thson dat The PL of MAGDASICPMN pros Yor, tho tal tention fo te MAGDASICPAN prope Pan il ar vied by Ian Soy eto rel 188068, 19805), References Chap cue decode ea Fate smd PN Mn Etro ond ear daly et Me Etre, Rev Geaplos Space Pye, 19 Feber) tan. ete Qut ay natn ae pe, Meck od V1 Pete, Qu yoann the meee uniting? api a sh “LOZ! EQUATORIAL BLECTROIET (>) NDEX BY MAGDASICNIN Seige Aeg eerie ET PR ‘tachceassctte os Mac onan Ea i fice, Gace ant Bre Si see TE coun cee naan a menena rata a emer a “Basted nce mae sa Seek eae hee ie ‘Suir, M, Hourly valves of quail Ds fr the YOY: Gn Space| ne Sinai ope neg Fete an oS wad LOSER mementos K Yon